---
date: '2023-02-27T21:51:11.327Z'
title: Introduction to React
tagline: Introduction to React
preview: >-
  React is an open-source JavaScript library for building user interfaces.
  Developed by Facebook, React allows you to create reusable and dynamic
  components that can be rendered in the browser or on the server.
image: >-
  https://images.pexels.com/photos/11035471/pexels-photo-11035471.jpeg?auto=compress&cs=tinysrgb&w=1260&h=750&dpr=1
---

React is an open-source JavaScript library for building user interfaces. Developed by Facebook, React allows you to create reusable and dynamic components that can be rendered in the browser or on the server.

Unlike many other JavaScript libraries, React doesn't concern itself with state management or DOM manipulation. Instead, it focuses on making UI development more efficient and easy to maintain. React is used by many companies to build web applications, including Facebook, Instagram, Airbnb, and many others.

## React Components

React is based on components. A component is a fundamental building block of a React app that encapsulates a specific part of the UI and its functionality. Components are reusable, modular, and allow you to break down a complex UI into smaller, more manageable parts.

## Props and State

React components can receive input data in the form of properties (props) and maintain their own internal state. Props are values that are passed to a component when it's created and remain immutable during that component's lifetime. State is managed by the component itself and can be changed over time. When a component's state is updated, React automatically re-renders the component.

## Rendering

React uses a technique called Virtual DOM to render components efficiently. Instead of updating the DOM directly, React compares the component's Virtual DOM element tree with its previous version and determines the differences. React then updates only the parts of the DOM that need to be updated, making rendering faster and more efficient.

## Conclusion

React is a popular and powerful JavaScript library that allows you to create efficient, scalable, and reusable user interfaces. With its components and its props and state-based approach, React makes web app development easier and more enjoyable. We hope this brief introduction has provided an overview of React and its key concepts. If you want to deepen your knowledge, we recommend continuing to study the topics mentioned above and exploring the resources available in the React official documentation.




