---
date: '2023-02-27T22:07:10.592Z'
title: React Props
tagline: React props
preview: >-
  React props (short for properties) are a way to pass data from a parent
  component to a child component. In this post, we'll explore how to use props
  in React, with some code examples.
image: >-
  https://images.pexels.com/photos/842876/pexels-photo-842876.jpeg?auto=compress&cs=tinysrgb&w=1260&h=750&dpr=1
---
React props (short for properties) are a way to pass data from a parent component to a child component. In this post, we'll explore how to use props in React, with some code examples.

# Beginner's Guide
To pass props to a child component, you simply add the prop as an attribute to the child component when you render it. Here's an example of a parent component passing a prop called "name" to a child component:

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import ChildComponent from './ChildComponent';

function ParentComponent() {
  return <ChildComponent name="John" />;
}
```

In this example, we define a parent component called "ParentComponent" that renders a child component called "ChildComponent" and passes a prop called "name" with the value "John". In the child component, we can access the prop value using the "props" object:

```jsx
import React from 'react';

function ChildComponent(props) {
  return <p>Hello, {props.name}!</p>;
}
```

In this example, we define a child component called "ChildComponent" that receives the "name" prop using the "props" object and renders a personalized message with the prop value.

# Advanced Guide
Props can also be passed as children of a component. This allows us to create more dynamic and reusable components. Here's an example of a parent component passing a prop called "children" to a child component:

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import ChildComponent from './ChildComponent';

function ParentComponent() {
  return (
    <ChildComponent>
      <p>Hello, John!</p>
    </ChildComponent>
  );
}
```


In this example, we define a parent component called "ParentComponent" that renders a child component called "ChildComponent" and passes a prop called "children" with a JSX expression as its value. In the child component, we can access the children prop using the "props.children" property:

```jsx
import React from 'react';

function ChildComponent(props) {
  return <div>{props.children}</div>;
}

```

In this example, we define a child component called "ChildComponent" that renders the "props.children" property inside a "div" tag.

Props can also be destructured in the function parameters, which allows us to access specific prop values more easily. Here's an example of a child component destructuring the "name" prop:

```jsx
import React from 'react';

function ChildComponent({ name }) {
  return <p>Hello, {name}!</p>;
}

```


In this example, we define a child component called "ChildComponent" that destructures the "name" prop in the function parameters and renders a personalized message with the prop value.

We can also define default props for a component, which are used if no prop value is passed. Here's an example of a child component with a default "name" prop:

```jsx
import React from 'react';

function ChildComponent(props) {
  return <p>Hello, {props.name}!</p>;
}

ChildComponent.defaultProps = {
  name: 'World'
};

```

In this example, we define a child component called "ChildComponent" with a default prop called "name" set to the value "World". If no "name" prop is passed, the component will display "Hello, World!".

# Conclusion
In this post, we've explored the basics of using props in React, including passing props as attributes, as children, destructuring props, and defining default props. Props are a powerful tool for building dynamic and reusable components in React, and by mastering their use, you'll be well on your way to becoming a proficient React
